README.md, before:

# C Data Structures and Algorithms

## Overview

This repository presents a curated collection of classic data structure and algorithm implementations in C, developed as part of my problem-solving and programming learning process. Each folder is organized by topic and includes well-documented code with examples, explanations, and robust error-handling practices.

---

## Contents

- [`circular_queue/`](./circular_queue): Dynamic circular queue (FIFO) using a singly-linked list. Demonstrates professional queue manipulation and memory management.
- [`huffman/`](./huffman): Implementation of Huffman coding for file compression and decompression, featuring a greedy binary-tree algorithm and bitwise file operations.
- [`graphs/`](./graphs): Modular, flexible graph library. Supports directed/undirected and weighted/unweighted graphs, efficient adjacency-list representation, and practical algorithms for graph analysis.

---

## Technologies

- ISO C (C99/C11 standard)
- Modular folder/file structure and separation of concerns
- Code written in professional English
- Comprehensive in-line documentation for learning and maintainability

---

## How to Use

1. **Clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/paulo-fonseca28/c-data-structures-and-algorithms.git
cd c-data-structures-and-algorithms
```

2. **Enter any subdirectory** and follow its README for compilation and examples. For most components:

```bash
gcc -Wall -O2 -o program main.c module.c
./program
```


---

## Learning Outcomes

- Understanding and applying foundational data structures: circular queues, trees, graphs
- Practicing algorithmic strategies: greedy, traversal, shortest paths
- Advanced use of C: pointers, dynamic memory, modularization, and error checking
- Writing robust and readable code suitable for open source and technical interviews

---

## Organizational Goals

- Be a reference codebase for students, interview practice, and anyone studying low-level data structures and algorithms
- Serve as a practical portfolio for demonstrating incremental progress and problem-solving skills in C
- Encourage best practices: project structure, documentation, modular code, and clear naming

---

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome for bugfixes, feature additions, and improvements to code quality or documentation. Fork and open an issue to discuss proposed changes.

---

## Author

Paulo Fonseca  
Information Systems student, Universidade Federal de Uberlândia  
GitHub: [github.com/paulo-fonseca28](https://github.com/paulo-fonseca28)

Commit message:

adding client-server basic calculator

README.md, after:

# C Data Structures and Algorithms

## Overview

This repository presents a curated collection of classic data structure and algorithm implementations in C, developed as part of my problem-solving and programming learning process. Each folder is organized by topic and includes well-documented code with examples, explanations, and robust error-handling practices.

---

## Contents

- [`circular_queue/`](./circular_queue): Dynamic circular queue (FIFO) using a singly-linked list. Demonstrates professional queue manipulation and memory management.
- [`huffman/`](./huffman): Implementation of Huffman coding for file compression and decompression, featuring a greedy binary-tree algorithm and bitwise file operations.
- [`graphs/`](./graphs): Modular, flexible graph library. Supports directed/undirected and weighted/unweighted graphs, efficient adjacency-list representation, and practical algorithms for graph analysis.

## Others

- [`client-server_basics/`] (./client-server_basics): Basic implementation of the classic system arquitecture "client-server", in form of a basic calculator. 

---

## Technologies

- ISO C (C99/C11 standard)
- Modular folder/file structure and separation of concerns
- Code written in professional English
- Comprehensive in-line documentation for learning and maintainability

---

## How to Use

1. **Clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/paulo-fonseca28/c-data-structures-and-algorithms.git
cd c-data-structures-and-algorithms
```

2. **Enter any subdirectory** and follow its README for compilation and examples. For most components:

```bash
gcc -Wall -O2 -o program main.c module.c
./program
```


---

## Learning Outcomes

- Understanding and applying foundational data structures: circular queues, trees, graphs
- Practicing algorithmic strategies: greedy, traversal, shortest paths
- Advanced use of C: pointers, dynamic memory, modularization, and error checking
- Writing robust and readable code suitable for open source and technical interviews

---

## Organizational Goals

- Be a reference codebase for students, interview practice, and anyone studying low-level data structures and algorithms
- Serve as a practical portfolio for demonstrating incremental progress and problem-solving skills in C
- Encourage best practices: project structure, documentation, modular code, and clear naming

---

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome for bugfixes, feature additions, and improvements to code quality or documentation. Fork and open an issue to discuss proposed changes.

---

## Author

Paulo Fonseca  
Information Systems student, Universidade Federal de Uberlândia  
GitHub: [github.com/paulo-fonseca28](https://github.com/paulo-fonseca28)
